---
layout: post
title: not-deep-learning
---

<span class="highlight">
    <span class="c">
        The following cluster of thoughts is intended to give some insights into what to expect out of the coterm / masters program at Stanford, focusing on AI. It's only my take. It's somewhat relevant if you're an engineer in-between industry and research (more industry), and considering investing in grad school.
    </span>
</span>

Here's a simple formula for doing well in final projects in AI classes:

    A + B * C + D + E + F = G

where

    * A = pick something you're interested in 
    * B = pick a teammate you vibe with / can be available / are interesting
    * C = number of chunks you can divide your project up into
    * D = gather the dataset and do something basic (Naive Bayes / 1-hidden layer NN)
    * E = do something beyond the basics (more data processing / SVM / RNN+CNN)
    * F = have a friend that has access to the Packard basement printer
    * G = profit

It looks heavy, but you only need to do it once, and after that it's a rinse-and-repeat process.

AI classes at Stanford typically consist of 4 math-heavy psets with some Matlab coding, and a final, semester-long project with a proposal and milestone due early on. The actual process is supposed to give students insight into what research is like.

TLDR: Research isn't that glorious. Implementation is hacky. Don't roll your own, you'll suck at it and won't finish. 

At best, your accuracies / auRoc's somewhere between random and bangin' awesome, you'll get a Github project out of it and can say you contributed to research. Yesss, that's exactly what I envisioned out of my grad school education.

Your mileage really varies, and you really get what you put into it. Before you go diving into these classes thinking you're gonna be AWESOME-AI-ENGINEER, consider what you'll actually get out of it. Is it a chance to see the theoretical side as an engineer? Or to apply what you've learned in theory classes? Because if you dive in thinking you just "want to be exposed to AI techniques" or "want a challenge" (I'm looking at you, ambitious undegrads), it might not be right time. Go take 140/143/144/248 instead and get some more coding under your belt.

