---
layout: post
title: notes
---

<p class="highlight">
    <i class="c">This is a dump of thoughts that's accumulated over the last few months.</i><br/>
</p>

Interviewing sucks. I've seen both sides about a dozen times over the past two months. It really comes down to a personality fit 
as much as a cultural one. A high bar for raw talent makes for a great story, but not always a great organizational move.

Bad things happen when people choose form over substance, but it happens. Choose substance first, then follow it with form.
This takes time, since form is easier to emulate. So don't worry too much about time. <b>Focus on substance and don't get distracted by form.</b>

Ever since I (re-)learned gradient descent and optimization, I've fallen back to it as a good framework for mapping
your life trajectory. At any given point, are you moving toward a local optimum, or are you keeping your eyes open
for the global one? If you're pursuing a global optimum, is your step size too large (i.e. you overshoot your target)?<br/>
<b>Would you settle for a local optimum?</b>

How do we avoid over-training our mental models in real life? It seems impossibly hard, and deep issues stem from something so
simple. Racism, stereotypes, miscommunication and misunderstandings can all be viewed as a problem of overfitting.
It helps to have some type of <b>awareness and intelligent peers</b> to make sure you're not over-training for what you see.

Practice for me is about training with <b>new examples</b> that grow to cover the domain of inputs.
Sometimes the hardest thing is deciding on the training data; the machinery is always there.

Allow people and habits to come back naturally. Read slower and longer. Write short and often. Dance. Explore. Stay curious.

Measure yourself, but not constantly. Monthly is a good pace. Be humble when making goals.

Give yourself "growth days". These are days during which you make progress on a goal. Reach.

<p class="highlight">
    <i class="ne">The days are long, but the months are short.</i>
</p>
