---
layout: post
title: early
---

# early

I've been thinking about hiring a lot lately. one thought that I keep running into in discussions friends and candidates is: why join a startup in its earliest stages? what makes the engineering challenges fun? I've always felt there was something unique about joining a startup maybe not as a founder, but anywhere between being the first engineer to being the 50th. It has to do with being able to work on "early" problems.

What are "early" problems? I've seen two types.

The first type are related to the domain. They're hard to grasp because you don't even know how to phrase them as problems; likely, if you're working on a product in a new domain, you're learning about the domain as you go along. The first people working in email, medicine, and billing systems probably found writing software for these domains to be super interesting because it had never been done before. All they had were a vision and guiding principle.

Take gmail. Building the search functionality for a web-based email client must have been really fun. The scale was tiny - data volumes for gmail must have been a million times smaller than the vast volumes in gmail today. Now search is such a solved problem that there's Algolia or AWS ElasticSearch, paid services that do all the heavy lifting for you.

At flexport, when we were building the first versions of projects, we had no idea what the "right" thing was. One example of this was a document parsing pipeline. We came in with the general problem that providers were emailing us tabular data in unstructured formats, scattered across screenshots, pdfs, and excel files. We had to learn exactly how business teams operated and what the nature of the industry was to figure out what exactly to build.

One of the issues with working on these types of problems early is that you really have to figure out which ones are the most valuable. And to do that, you need to have a nose for what's valuable for the business and the industry. With our document parsing project above, we knew it was the right thing to build because we built the features that alleviated the most pain for our business team. The most valuable and often-used features turn out to be the ones that solve the everyday pains of your users.

The second type of "early" problems are at the scaling phase. This is when
you've built some projects from the ground up, but your systems are no longer
working because your org is evolving. You need a re-architecture. You have the
same problems to solve, but you need a new paradigm for solving them. Maybe this is a move to service-oriented architecture. Maybe it's a transition from on-prem to the cloud, or from cloud to on-prem like dropbox.

These problems are very unique, and you likely only get to experience these a
few times in your career. They exist because you joined a company early enough to see the business really grow, and a company only needs to go through this painful process once. For example, you never willingly do soa twice. If you're lucky enough to do it correctly based on domains, you have much less work. If you get it wrong, you might have to combine and remove some services. But it's much less painful the second time.

At flexport, we're going through our own - the <a
href="https://martinfowler.com/articles/data-monolith-to-mesh.html">data mesh </a> transformation. It's an "early" problem because there's few existing examples in the industry, and it's a big change Most enterprise companies have migrated bits and pieces of their systems to this type of architecture. It requires proving out the value of this new pattern, and we won't see the truly amazing benefits until years down the line.

Interestingly, the two types of problems all have "pain" as a common
denominator. In the first type, you're solving your customers' pains. In
the second, you're incurring the pain of refactoring or re-architecting your
systems.

Early problems are painful, pretty hard, and you'll likely make mistakes
along the way. But they're also the most informative learning experiences. In a
career where you bias for learning, these experiences will always force you to
stretch and grow. But what else is there but to grow?


# notes

* what if you apply pg's thoughts to projects within companies?
* why do hackathons? camaraderie but also a chance to empower engineers.
* tangent: thought that that in the good old days software engineers made decisions on just about everything, and generally have good ideas that bring about lots of change.
* what happens if early is not incentivized within a company?
* how can you incentivize early?
* it comes down to delivering value
* "early" at a company vs late at a company. seeing projects develop

---

**tl;dr being an early engineer in a VC-funded tech startup is rewarding for the freedom and information gain. partially inspired to write this after reading paul [graham's essay](http://paulgraham.com/early.html)**

I've always been attracted to engineering problems at tech companies before they reach "breakout scale". but these problems are messy. early engineers have earned a reputation for buliding things that don't scale. and these problems don't always attract the best technical engineers who often find problems interesting "at scale" (1m concurrent connections, petabytes of data, you name it). So what makes these problems so attractive?

In my mind it's because early problems work a part of the brain that I can only describe as "engineering creativity". the degreee of freedom is hard to find elsewhere. because you're solving problems that few people have experienced before, it doesn't make sense to build on top of anything; you often have to build your own.



