---
layout: post
title: the-startup-castle
---

I used to live in a startup castle. It was circulating last month in the news,
and criticized pretty harshly, and probably a bit unfairly, for its extensive list of requirements to be a
resident. If it's been a while since you've read it, the words Woodside
Startup Castle might ring a bell.

I've deliberated about writing about this, because it's hard to offer an unbiased
perspective. I've seen all the generations of housemates come and go, sometimes for strange and
arbitrary reasons, and other times for reasons that make complete sense.

I don't know. I'm still trying to make sense of the experience for myself. But
here are some facts to try and offer an insider's look.

- The castle started in September with a good idea - a community of
  self-driven, self-policing indivdiuals, and attracted some brilliant people
  who I'd never have otherwise met.
- There were only a few rules at the beginning - no alcohol and keeping the
  place clean and orderly was all.
- The first month and a half saw a vibrant atmosphere of residents.
- The founders of the movement ran into some personal hurdles.
- The house atmosphere started to deterioriate as successive generations of
  residents were moved or dismissed from the house without good reason or
  because they didn't fit in with the vision of the house
- The founders decided that word-of-mouth was strong enough, and stopped
  advertising. At the same time, residents were being shuttled in and out, so
  by the time the holidays rolled around there were only a handful of
  residents in a 30,000 sq ft mansion. This also drove up operating costs.
- The last batch was rung in with the new year

There were certainly cool moments, but what I'll be missign most are the 

