---
layout: post
title: nerds
---

A couple days ago, I read Paul Graham's essay on nerds (not my first time). In it, he uses a personal anecdote as a way of getting at the 
larger problems of the US schooling system - the lack of direction and aim, combined with a rigid, misplaced sense of the 
workhorse attitude. Here's the TLDR version (it's a long read).

The part that got me hooked was the part about fitting in, and why nerds fundamentally cannot - 
it's because nerds just don't care (pictured <a href="http://images2.nick.com/nickatnite-assets/shows/images/family-matters/flipbooks/characters/steve-3.jpg?height=220&width=300&quality=0.75">this</a> in my mind). 
Their lives are spent serving a different overlord than the cool kids. Fundamentally, the nerdy kids find a sense of smartness more important than a sense of popularity. It's not
that these kids can't be popular; it's that they choose to spend their time on something else.

This makes sense, but only because I self-identified as a nerdy kid growing up. I have no idea what the other side was thinking.

The next observation he makes is that without a hard measure upon which you're ranked, competition quickly becomes a "popularity contest". 
PG's quick to point out that nerds make good entrepreneurs because they're focused on looking for what's "right", 
rather than their relative ranking. 

Ehm, not sure about this one. It's a nice thought, but products and people are pretty complicated, and ground truths can be deceiving - do users really 
know what they want?

Besides these takeaways, the essay left a general impression about truth and confirmity. How many of us have an iron resolve to focus on
the essentials? I can't help but feel that most of us are tied up in "busywork" 50% of the day. Meetings, upping our personal branding, 
instagramming, becoming the top of our respective social pyramids.

Sometimes it's necessary to increase perceived value, but if that's all it is, what's the point? Why bend over backwards in
order to achieve something that doesn't really have permanent value?

That may sound like harsh judgment, but it isn't meant to be. I think most people haven't yet discovered what's needed to create
permanent, lasting value. I'm not sure most people even think about this question with the intention of doing anything about it. 
And since people have varying definitions of value, this definition becomes hard to generalize across many people.
