---
layout: post
title: 2016 - Mini Stories
---

2016 starts at home, champagne glasses in hand, with whatever family members
we manage to gather together in NJ. The TV is turned off; we forget to pay
for cable, so we don't hear the constant hum of the Times Square party in the
background.

I begin to see the effects of distance on family ties. I realize the parents
are now something to worry about. They're in ok shape, but starting to show
signs of mental wear-and-tear. My cousins are experiencing first-hand the
challenges of adulthood in the US, which is to them cultural foreign territory.
Family friends rarely meet up for the occasional holiday celebrations; I learnt
via a casual remark that most people my age are well on their way to marriage
or parenthood.

I want to be here physically to help, but I'm pushed away both physically and
metaphorically. With each passing year, the distance grows between myself and
the space and people I left in NYC. I see the near future as the conclusions
of *mini stories* - small personal narratives (like getting fit, working on a
passion, or starting a new job) that may grow to bigger ones down the line.
None of these narratives help to narrow this distance.

--

On the subject of mini-stories, I've found a good New Years resolution is to
live these out to their conclusions. It's not a conceptually different
resolution from the last 365 days, but what sets it apart is the reminder that
that small tweaks, rather than speed changes, lead to noticeable changes.

--

Two things I wish to get better at that I feel afraid to admit are:

- surrounding myself with a richer personal network
- catching up with old faces

These feel so simple, and are skills that most people I feel have developed
already. I tend to keep a tight circle of people I see and meet up with always.
It makes it harder to bump into friends randomly except when we'd explicitly
communicate to meet up. It makes it harder to be vulnerable and vent to
someone. The enemy here, too, is distance.

--

Two things I feel myself getting better at are:

- understanding others
- commitment and discipline

The second comes as a result of physical activity; the first as you start
coming into contact with different people from different backgrounds. These
are natural with habit change, but they're a noticeable shift in the personal
landscape.

--

Measurable progress. Keep hustling.
